Usage: pmg [options] fsm

PyModel Graphics. The single argument fsm is one finite state machine
(FSM) module name (without the .py suffix).  The FSM is typically
produced by the PyModel Analyzer, pma.  From the FSM, pmg generates
a file of commands in the dot graph-drawing language.  This .dot file
can then be processed by the dot program in the Graphviz package from
www.graphviz.org.  Use the PyModel commands dotps, dotpdf, or dotsvg to run dot
and produce PostScript, PDF, or SVG, respectively. SVG files can be viewed
in a web browser.

Alternatively, pma, pmg, and a dot program can all be invoked by the
pmv program, so analysis and display can be accomplished by a single
command.

Control clutter in the graph with the -l --transitionLabels option:
-l action shows the action name, arguments, and return value,
-l name shows only the action name, and -l none shows no labels.

In the generated graphics, the initial state is gray.  Accepting
states have a double border.  Unsafe states are red.  Unexplored or
incompletely explored states are orange (these may have outgoing
transitions that are not shown). Terminal states (with no outgoing
transitions) that are accepting states are green.  Terminal states
that are not accepting states are yellow; runs that end in these
states are considered failures.

In the browser, hover the pointer over a state to display a tooltip
that shows the state variables and their values.  Place the point of
the pointer over any pixel on a transition vector to display a tooltip
that shows the transition.


Options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -o OUTPUT, --output=OUTPUT
                        Output file name (not including .dot), default is <fsm
                        argument>
  -l TRANSITIONLABELS, --transitionLabels=TRANSITIONLABELS
                        Transition labels: action, name, or none, default is
                        action
  -x, --noStateTooltip  Omit tooltips from state bubbles (to work around dot
                        svg problem)
  -y, --noTransitionTooltip
                        Omit tooltips from transition arrows
